Cycling and Road Lighting: A Review
================

**Abstract**

<Background>Evidence shows that darkness discourages people from
cycling. This is due to a higher perceived danger of cyclists at night
from motorised traffic and personal security, which disproportionately
affect women, the elderly, and disadvantaged groups. <Aim>This paper
provides a review on the scientific literature that intersects between
cycling and road lighting to better understand the relationship between
both terms. <Method>We used a hybrid systematic and snowballing method.
52 studies on several disciplines such as engineering, transport, road
safety, and public health were reviewed. <Results>The literature
suggests that… Gaps in the literature are… <Conclusion>

**Keywords**

Cycling; road lighting; road safety; personal security; inequalities

# Introduction

Benefits of cycling are well established in the literature. Cycling
improves physical, mental, and social health; reduces pollution, carbon
emissions, and congestion; and it is more inclusive than private
motorised modes, reducing inequalities (references needed). For this
reason, cycling is being encouraged. Yet, most people keep choosing to
drive to cycle.

One of the main determinants of cycling is fear of motorised vehicles
(reference needed). Many studies have explored to what extent safe
cycling infrastructure affects cycling (add brief conclusions of these
studies here). However, less investigated have been other micro-built
environmental factors such as road lighting, which may have a strong
influence on people’s fear when cycling.

<!-- Linear cycling infrastructure at ground level, such as cycle lanes, have received the bulk of research and policy attention in relation to investment in walking and cycling. However, localised treatments such as appropriate lighting and cycle parking can have a major impact on cyclability. There is much evidence suggesting darkness puts people off from cycling, and increases the risk of being involved in a collision whilst cycling. Appropriate road or path lighting can increase feelings of reassurance, make hazards more visible, and make the cyclist more visible to other road users. However, there is to date little evidence on the lighting interventions that work best, in combination with other measures. Lighting after dark has costs, both in terms of energy use and harmful ecological effects due to excess light pollution, raising the question: what is the optimal use of lighting to enable safe cycling uptake, at all times and in all seasons? -->

Previous academic literature reviews have touched on elements of the
relationship between cycling and lighting. For example, S. Fotios and
Castleton (2017) reviewed suggested interventions to enable cycling
lighting to contribute to the safety of cyclists in the UK. Reynolds et
al. (2009) reviewed the impact of transport infrastructure, including
street lighting, on cycling collisions. However, to the best of our
knowledge, no academic paper has reviewed the international literature
available on the intersection between both terms, cycling and road
lighting. This paper aims to fill this gap in the literature.

The review is guided by the following questions:

<!-- replace darkness with road lighting? -->

1.  To what extent does darkness influence cycling behaviour?

2.  To what extent does darkness increase the risk of road collision
    among cyclists?

3.  To what extent does darkness increase the risk of being a victim of
    crime among cyclists?

4.  Is the association between cycling and darkness the same between
    different groups?

5.  What type of road lighting is the most suitable for cycling to
    increase and be safer?

<!-- Other interesting questions to respond: -->
<!-- - What happens to people who do not cycle when it is dark? Do they change their routes? Do they change their mode of transport? -->
<!-- - Is traffic stress or darkness a bigger barrier to cycling (and impact of lighting)? -->

We focus on road and/or ambient lighting, excluding studies on lighting
equipment for cyclists, such as reflective clothing or bicycle-mounted
lights.

The review is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the method.
Section 3 presents the findings of the papers reviewed. Section 4
critically analyses the findings and identifies gaps in the literature.
Section 5 closes the work with the conclusions.

# Method

<!-- ## Search strategy -->
<!-- Two methods were used to conduct the literature review: (a) a systematic search, and (b) additional smaller searches and snowballing.  -->
<!-- For completeness, separate smaller searches and snowballing were applied for the theoretical review as well as when the researchers were aware that a body of literature existed, but our systematic search had not picked up on it.  -->

We used a hybrid systematic and snowballing method. First, we searched
in the SCOPUS electronic databased (on 15 November 2022) for studies
investigating the relationship between cycling and road lighting. The
query string used for the search was as follows:

*(bicycl\* OR bik\* OR cycling OR cyclist\* OR “cycle hire”) AND (“city
light\*” OR “public light\*” OR “road light\*” OR “street light\*” or
“city illumination” OR “public illumination” OR “road illumination” OR
“street illumination” OR “city lamp\*” OR “public lamp\*” OR “road
lamp\*” OR “street lamp\*” OR “lamp post\*” OR “light post\*” OR “light
pole\*”)*

This search, based on the content of the title, abstract, and keywords,
resulted in 262 records. After screening abstracts and full text, 46
studies were selected. We excluded papers that did not focus on cycling
and road lighting (many studies mentioned cycling and lighting in
passing but not as the topic of the paper).

<!-- We excluded conference papers. -->
<!-- We excluded the following papers that could not be accessed: 

- Automated intelligent public lighting system

- Using of green energy from sustainable pavement plates for lighting bikeways

- Changing the DNA of city streets: NACTO's urban street design guide and the new city street design paradigm
-->

In the second stage, we checked the references from the studies selected
(i.e. snowball technique), and after screening abstracts and full texts,
11 additional papers were selected. In total, 57 were reviewed. A flow
chart of included studies is shown in Figure 1.

<img src="flow-chart.png" alt="Figure 1: flow chart" width="50%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

<!-- ## Data extraction -->
<!-- From the included studies, we extracted information regarding: location of study, methodology, cycling uptake and lighting measurements, mode, sign of association, and authors and year. -->

# Results

<Subject area>The scientific literature was found to be broadly spread
across several disciplines, including engineering, transport, road
safety, and public health.

<Themes>Five main themes emerged:

1.  Cycling behaviour and lighting

2.  Cycling collisions and lighting

3.  Cycling, crime and lighting

4.  Cycling inequalities in lighting

5.  Proper lighting for cyclists

<!-- (i.e. optimal use of lighting to enhance cyclists reassurance while respecting the environment) -->

<Study type>Most of the studies were written in the last decade, 49 were
empirical and 8 were reviews (Figure 1).

![Figure 2: number of papers reviewed by type and
year](README_files/figure-gfm/fig2-1.png)

<!-- <type of empirical papers> Most of the empirical studies were quantitative (), five of them qualitative, and one of them mixed methods. -->

## Cycling behaviour and lighting

<!-- I could also divide the section on quantitative studies and objective and subjective. -->

Previous research has found a positive association between street
lighting and active travel and physical activity (references needed).
Street lighting increases cyclists’ sense of safety at night by helping
them see and be seen by other road users during their journey. It also
provides them with a greater sense of security against possible threats
in the dark.

A recent review on differences and similarities in cycling between
sub-Saharan African cities (SSA) and developed world cities (DWC) found
that studies in both SSA cities and DWC are unanimous that street
lighting has an important influence on cycling (Mendiate et al. 2022).
“Ribbens (2008) indicate that cyclists avoid poorly lit streets in the
townships of South Africa. Buyana and Shuaib (2014) indicate
that”cyclists in the suburbs of Kampala are likely to forego a trip if
the access road is not well-lit. Similarly, Winters et al. (2010) in
their study in Vancouver (Canada) cite that not well-lit bicycle lanes
are strongly linked to the reduction of cycling rates. In addition,
Chandra and Radhakrishnan (2015) indicate that people avoid cycling in
areas with cycle paths that do not have street lights at night”
(Mendiate et al. 2022). “lack of street lighting can contribute to poor
visibility, perception and fear of crime thus decreasing bicycle use.
This is particularly relevant in SSA due to the generalized lack of
security and safety.” (Mendiate et al. 2022).

In a review on research on built environment and physical activity among
children and youth, prince_examining_2022 found street lighting
positively associated with total physical activity among youth and
children/youth, but not among children.

Luo et al. (2022) found that nighttime brightness had pronounce effects
on active travel.

Using Strava Heatmap data and spatial regression models, Linchuan Yang
et al. (2022) found street lighting positively associated with running,
but not with cycling.

Using odd ratios to compare traffic flows in case and control hours,
Steve Fotios and Robbins (2022) found that darkness had a significant
negative effect on the number of pedestrians and cyclists, but not on
the number of motorized vehicles.

Using satellite and street view imagery and linear regressions,
Zacharias and Meng (2021) found street lighting highly significantly
associated with higher uptake and deposit of dock-less shared bicycle
trips.

“Elements positively associated with physical activity in older adults
were (…) street lighting; crime-related safety; traffic-related safety.
Negatively associated with physical activity were (…) barriers to
walking/cycling; crime-related unsafety; unattended dogs; inadequate
street lighting and upkeep; vandalism, etc.” (Bonaccorsi et al. 2020).

Using odd ratios, Uttley, Fotios, and Lovelace (2020) found that the
drop in cycling levels after dark was substantially greater in unlit
locations, compared with lit locations. Uttley, Fotios, and Lovelace
(2020) also found a non-linear relationship between relative brightness
and the reduction in cyclists after-dark, suggesting that a minimal
amount of lighting could be enough to promote cycling after dark.

“Pedestrians and cyclists have similar preferences for road segments
with building lower than 6 floors, 50% retail shops in frontage, more
greenery, lamps between 15 m and 30 m, more crossing facilities, wider
sidewalk/bike lane and not crowded” (Liu et al. 2020).

S. Fotios, Uttley, and Fox (2019) found that “ambient light has a
significant impact: For a given time of day, more people walk or cycle
when it is daylight than after dark and more people cycle on cycle
trails and walk on foot paths after dark when they are lit than when
they are unlit”.

This supported previous work which “indicated the numbers of pedestrians
and cyclists during the case period were significantly higher during
daylight conditions than after-dark, resulting in a 62% increase in
pedestrians and a 38% increase in cyclists” (Uttley and Fotios 2017).

“Some bicyclists favor routes which are planted with street trees or
installed with street lights” (Chen, Shen, and Childress 2018).

Using self-reported commuting data, Lin Yang et al. (2017) found that
individuals living in neighbourhoods with higher density of street light
were more likely to active commuting.

In a review of forty two quantitative studies that estimated association
between neighbourhood built environment and active travel in older
adults, Cerin et al. (2017) observed positive associations with
availability of street lights.

In a paper that estimated welfare change associated with improvements in
urban bicycling facilities, Poorfakhraei and Rowangould (2015) found
that “cycle tracks were valued the most, followed by street lighting,
and bicycle lanes”.

“Winters et al. (2011) found that a major deterrent to cycling was if
the route was not well lit after-dark. The deterrent effect was largest
for people who don’t currently cycle but potentially would do in the
future, highlighting the importance of lighting in encouraging uptake of
cycling” (Uttley, Fotios, and Lovelace 2020).

Respondents in a study that examined if neighbourhood environments were
associated with walking and cycling, reported that good lighting at
night is an important facilitator of cycling (Lee and Moudon 2008).

## Cycling collisions and lighting

One of the main reasons that cycling decreases at night is cyclists’
fear of not being seen in the dark and thus being hit by a motorised
vehicle (reference needed). The probability of suffering a traffic
collision in the dark among pedestrians and cyclists is much greater
than among other road users (e.g. Wiratama et al. (2022); Samerei et al.
(2021)). Not only the frequency of injuries but also their severity is
higher at night-time (Asgarzadeh et al. 2018; Wang, Lu, and Lu 2015).

“Certainly lighting condition is directly related with visibility which
primarily affects the risk of accidents, but also affects severity due
to lack of evasive action (e.g. driver did not see bicyclist) which
leads to greater impact and thus severity” (Kim et al. 2007).

Wiratama et al. (2022) found that children pedestrians and cyclists
“involved in backover crashes with heavy vehicles and diminished light
conditions had a 71% higher risk of sustaining Killed or seriously
injured than those involved in crashes with other vehicles and optimal
light conditions”.

“It is found that unsafeness of interaction between rider and
infrastructure depends on lighting and road surface meteorological
conditions” (Malik, Dala, and Busawon 2022).

Samerei et al. (2021) found “that the factors that increase the risk of
fatalities and serious injuries of bicyclists in all clusters are
elderly bicyclist, not using a helmet, and darkness condition”.

A study on bicycle-motor vehicle crashes found that “crashes in low
light conditions and during early morning hours are more likely to
result in higher injury severity” (Asgarzadeh et al. 2018).

“when cycling on a lit road, cycle lighting frequently offers no benefit
for peripheral detection and may make it worse. It was demonstrated that
position matters” (S. Fotios et al. 2017).

“cyclist–motorist crashes were nonlinearly associated with light pole
densities” (Osama and Sayed 2017).

“An increase in intersection illuminance from low (\<0.2 fc) to medium
(≥ 0.2 fc and \<1.1 fc) could reduce nighttime crash frequency and
night-to-day crash ratios by approximately 50%. When illuminance was
kept at 0.9 fc or higher, the risk of fatality and severe injury
decreased significantly, especially in crashes that involved pedestrians
and bicycles, head-on crashes, and angle crashes” (Wei et al. 2016).

Nabavi Niaki et al. (2016) found that “an increase in road lighting was
associated with more bicycle and pedestrian accidents, which might have
been explained by the decision to add or increase the amount of lighting
at locations in which accidents occurred”.

“Improving street lighting can decrease the likelihood of cyclist
injuries” (Chen and Shen 2016).

“Inadequate use of lights in dark conditions were linked with increased
injury severity” (Wang, Lu, and Lu 2015).

“Most nighttime fatal crashes were related to absence of street
lighting” (Lu, Wang, and Wang 2015).

“To improve visibility of pedestrians and cyclists, street lighting has
been suggested as an intervention able to improve driver’s visual
capabilities and ability to detect roadway hazards and to prevent car
crashes” (Porchia, Baldasseroni, and Dellisanti 2014).

“Cycling in late evening darkness is associated with higher injury rates
than cycling in daylight conditions. In comparison to late evening
darkness, relative injury rates in early morning darkness are much
higher. This is the case for crashes with large differences among the
age groups, suggesting that in addition to the absence of daylight also
age related risk factors are at play” (Twisk and Reurings 2013). “The
proportion of seriously injured cyclists who have been drinking is
highest in early morning darkness and has strongly increased over the
last decades” (Twisk and Reurings 2013).

“The presence of street lighting had a point estimate that indicated a
reduction in the odds of a severe injury. Some aesthetic and safety
items, such as streetlights and high surveillance showed a 30%–40%
reduction in the odds of severe injury” (Romanow et al. 2012).

“Street lighting is an additional factor that appear to improve cycling
safety” (Reynolds et al. 2009).

“The most important variables influencing non-motorist injury severity
are the age of the individual (the elderly are more injury-prone), the
speed limit on the roadway (higher speed limits lead to higher injury
severity levels), location of crashes (those at signalized intersections
are less severe than those elsewhere), and time-of-day” (Eluru, Bhat,
and Hensher 2008).

“Darkness without streetlights increases the probability of fatal injury
by 110.9% in accidents compared to accidents occurring in daylight or
darkness with streetlights” (Kim et al. 2007).

“Injury accidents in on lit roads are reduced by 50%. The effect on
fatal accidents is slightly larger. The effect during twilight is about
2/3 of the effect in darkness. The effects on pedestrian, bicycle and
moped accidents are significantly larger than the effects on automobile
and motorcycle accidents. The risk of injury accidents was found to
increase in darkness. The average increase in risk was estimated to 17%
on lit rural roads and 145% on unlit rural roads. The average increase
in risk with respect to pedestrian accidents is about 140% on lit rural
roads and about 360% on unlit rural roads” (Wanvik 2009).

“Variables that significantly increase injury severity include darkness”
(Klop and Khattak 1999).

“The proportion of cyclists involved in fatalities at night increases
with increase in age. Almost 80% of nighttime accidents occurred on
links on arterial roads, and the majority in the high speed limit zones
(75 kph and over). A greater proportion of accidents was initiated by
cyclists. In 90% of nighttime cyclist fatalities the cyclist was hit
from the rear, compared with 40% in daytime” (Mazharul Hoque 1990).

## Cycling, crime, and lighting

Another factor that explains why there is less cycling at night is the
fear of crime. This is much less investigated than the relationship
between lighting and cycling collisions. There is evidence that street
lighting decreases crime and enhances reassurance and confidence of
pedestrians and cyclists after dark (e.g. Castillo-Paredes et al. 2022).

“Variables related to crime and lighting of public spaces were
associated with active travel in countries in Latin America”
(Castillo-Paredes et al. 2022).

Lusk et al. (2019) asked lower-income predominantly-minority residents
what bicycle routes surface or context they perceived as safest from
crime and crashes. They reported that “clean signs, balconies, cafes,
street lights, no cuts between buildings, and flowers were low risk for
crime and witnesses, little traffic, and bike signals low risk for
crash”.

“Violent crimes appear to significantly deter people from choosing to
walk or bicycle, potentially exposing themselves to threats of personal
injury” (Appleyard and Ferrell 2017).

“High-crime neighborhoods tend to discourage residents from walking or
riding a bicycle” (Ferrell and Mathur 2012).

## Cycling inequalities in lighting

Fear of danger of injury from traffic, falls, or violence seems to
affect groups differently.

<Gender>

S. Fotios, Uttley, and Gorjimahlabani (2022) found that darkness has a
greater deterrent effect on female cyclists than male cyclists.

“Recent research (Sustrans 2018) found that only 23% of women felt safe
cycling during hours of darkness, compared with 36% of men, which
suggests that Lighting may also contribute to addressing the current
gender imbalance in cycling by encouraging more women to cycle
after-dark” (Uttley, Fotios, and Lovelace 2020).

<!-- "Women are more sensitive to dark spaces when walking and cycling than men" [@xie_i_2018]. -->

<Age>

<Disadvantaged groups>

“Both traffic safety concerns and personal security concerns were most
strongly associated with poor neighborhood opportunities for exercise.
Respondents living in lower-income communities reported greater barriers
to pedestrian and bicycle safety and security than residents from
wealthier neighborhoods” (Schneider, Wiers, and Schmitz 2022).

## Proper lighting for cyclists

A substantial number of papers found in our search focused on what type
of road lighting is best suited for cyclists. That is, in investigating
which lighting attributes, such as illuminance, light temperature,
uniformity and glare, are the most appropriate to guarantee the safety
of cyclists.

Some of these papers were on Smart Street Lighting. In other words, in
lighting systems that adapts to the movement of pedestrians, cyclists,
and cars (e.g. Gagliardi et al. (2020); Abdullah et al. (2019); Juntunen
et al. (2018)).

“Light and glare from road lighting and headlights have significant
impacts on vision and night driving and these effects are likely to
change with evolving technologies” (Wood 2020).

“LED road lighting for vehicular traffic roads generally fulfilled the
requirements, whereas that for pedestrian and bicycle roads generally
corresponded to the lowest lighting class for L, and often did not meet
the statutory requirements for Uo and UI” (Jägerbrand 2016).

# Discussion

The scientific literature on the intersections of cycling and lighting
is spread across several disciplines such as such as engineering,
transport, road safety, and public health.

Below, based on the results of the review, we answer the questions that
guide this paper.

#### To what extent does darkness influence cycling behaviour?

The positive results obtained in studies looking at the association
between cycling uptake and street lighting show the importance of light
conditions as a policy measure to encourage cycling in the dark.
Lighting conditions improvements not only may increase cycling trips in
general, but also the inclusivity of cycling, since, as has been
demonstrated, street lighting will benefit more certain groups such as
women, children, the elderly, and disadvantaged populations.

#### To what extent does darkness increase the risk of road collision among cyclists?

#### To what extent does darkness increase the risk of being a victim of crime among cyclists?

#### Is the association between cycling and darkness the same between different groups?

#### What type of road lighting is the most suitable for cycling to increase and be safer?

## Research gaps

<!-- -   Lack of research in developing countries -->

## Strenghts and limitations

# Conclusions

This paper reviewed published research at the intersection between
cycling and road lighting.

<gaps>Despite the recent growth of articles on this subject, it is still
very little researched. More empirical work in the area of cycling and
road lighting is needed.

<!-- We plan to undertake some of this work over the coming months in the SATURN (Supporting Active Travel Using Road lighting at Night) project, which has been funded by the UK Research and Innovation body. -->
<!-- During the project we plan to measure change in cycling levels, primarily through cyclists counts, and cycling safety due to darkness as inferred from models of cycling levels and high resolution casualty over multi year timescales and in a number of different locations. -->
<!-- Comparing resulting estimates of change in cycling and safety levels will help assess the impact of lighting in those locations, but there is much else to do in this field beyond what is possible in a 24 month research project. -->
<!-- Further work is needed to better understand how lighting characteristics such as illuminance and the spatial distribution of lighting influence cycling rates and cyclist safety. -->
<!-- To ensure the policy relevance of future work into road lighting and cycling, it is important that the findings feed into larger models of cycling uptake to support cost effective investment in road and path lighting [@fotios_pilot_2017], as part of balanced packages of interventions, for the benefit of people who stand to benefit from better walking, cycling and wheeling provision worldwide. -->

# Disclosure statement

No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).

# References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-abdullah_energy_2019" class="csl-entry">

Abdullah, Aziera, Siti Hajar Yusoff, Syasya Azra Zaini, Nur Shahida
Midi, and Sarah Yasmin Mohamad. 2019. “Energy Efficient Smart Street
Light for Smart City Using Sensors and Controller.” *Bulletin of
Electrical Engineering and Informatics* 8 (2): 558–68.
<https://doi.org/10.11591/eei.v8i2.1527>.

</div>

<div id="ref-appleyard_influence_2017" class="csl-entry">

Appleyard, Bruce S., and Christopher E. Ferrell. 2017. “The Influence of
Crime on Active & Sustainable Travel: New Geo-Statistical Methods and
Theories for Understanding Crime and Mode Choice.” *Journal of Transport
& Health* 6 (September): 516–29.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jth.2017.04.002>.

</div>

<div id="ref-asgarzadeh_impact_2018" class="csl-entry">

Asgarzadeh, Morteza, Dorothee Fischer, Santosh K. Verma, Theodore K.
Courtney, and David C. Christiani. 2018. “The Impact of Weather, Road
Surface, Time-of-Day, and Light Conditions on Severity of Bicycle-Motor
Vehicle Crash Injuries.” *American Journal of Industrial Medicine* 61
(7): 556–65. <https://doi.org/10.1002/ajim.22849>.

</div>

<div id="ref-bonaccorsi_impact_2020" class="csl-entry">

Bonaccorsi, Guglielmo, Federico Manzi, Marco Del Riccio, Nicoletta
Setola, Eletta Naldi, Chiara Milani, Duccio Giorgetti, Claudia
Dellisanti, and Chiara Lorini. 2020. “Impact of the Built Environment
and the Neighborhood in Promoting the Physical Activity and the Healthy
Aging in Older People: An Umbrella Review.” *International Journal of
Environmental Research and Public Health* 17 (17): 6127.
<https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph17176127>.

</div>

<div id="ref-buyana_gender_2014" class="csl-entry">

Buyana, Kareem, and Lwasa Shuaib. 2014. “Gender Responsiveness in
Infrastructure Provision for African Cities: The Case of Kampala in
Uganda.” *Journal of Geography and Regional Planning* 7 (1): 1–9.
<https://doi.org/10.5897/JGRP2013.0424>.

</div>

<div id="ref-castillo-paredes_perceived_2022" class="csl-entry">

Castillo-Paredes, Antonio, Beatriz Iglésias, Claudio Farías-Valenzuela,
Irina Kovalskys, Georgina Gómez, Attilio Rigotti, Lilia Yadira Cortés,
et al. 2022. “Perceived Neighborhood Safety and Active Transportation in
Adults from Eight Latin American Countries.” *International Journal of
Environmental Research and Public Health* 19 (19): 12811.
<https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph191912811>.

</div>

<div id="ref-cerin_neighbourhood_2017" class="csl-entry">

Cerin, Ester, Andrea Nathan, Jelle van Cauwenberg, David W. Barnett, and
Anthony Barnett. 2017. “The Neighbourhood Physical Environment and
Active Travel in Older Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.”
*International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity* 14
(1): 15. <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12966-017-0471-5>.

</div>

<div id="ref-chandra_street_2015" class="csl-entry">

Chandra, Shailesh, and Ramalingam Radhakrishnan. 2015. “Street
Visibility-Dependent Path Finding for Pedestrians and Bicyclists in
Urban Areas.” In. <https://trid.trb.org/view/1337600>.

</div>

<div id="ref-chen_built_2016" class="csl-entry">

Chen, Peng, and Qing Shen. 2016. “Built Environment Effects on Cyclist
Injury Severity in Automobile-Involved Bicycle Crashes.” *Accident
Analysis & Prevention* 86 (January): 239–46.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2015.11.002>.

</div>

<div id="ref-chen_gps_2018" class="csl-entry">

Chen, Peng, Qing Shen, and Suzanne Childress. 2018. “A GPS Data-Based
Analysis of Built Environment Influences on Bicyclist Route
Preferences.” *International Journal of Sustainable Transportation* 12
(3): 218–31. <https://doi.org/10.1080/15568318.2017.1349222>.

</div>

<div id="ref-eluru_mixed_2008" class="csl-entry">

Eluru, Naveen, Chandra R. Bhat, and David A. Hensher. 2008. “A Mixed
Generalized Ordered Response Model for Examining Pedestrian and
Bicyclist Injury Severity Level in Traffic Crashes.” *Accident Analysis
& Prevention* 40 (3): 1033–54.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2007.11.010>.

</div>

<div id="ref-ferrell_influences_2012" class="csl-entry">

Ferrell, Christopher E., and Shishir Mathur. 2012. “Influences of
Neighborhood Crime on Mode Choice.” *Transportation Research Record:
Journal of the Transportation Research Board* 2320 (1): 55–63.
<https://doi.org/10.3141/2320-07>.

</div>

<div id="ref-fotios_lighting_2017" class="csl-entry">

Fotios, S, and Hf Castleton. 2017. “Lighting for Cycling in the UK—A
Review.” *Lighting Research & Technology* 49 (3): 381–95.
<https://doi.org/10.1177/1477153515609391>.

</div>

<div id="ref-fotios_pilot_2017" class="csl-entry">

Fotios, S, H Qasem, C Cheal, and J Uttley. 2017. “A Pilot Study of Road
Lighting, Cycle Lighting and Obstacle Detection.” *Lighting Research &
Technology* 49 (5): 586–602. <https://doi.org/10.1177/1477153515625103>.

</div>

<div id="ref-fotios_effect_2022" class="csl-entry">

Fotios, Steve, and Chloe Jade Robbins. 2022. “Effect of Ambient Light on
the Number of Motorized Vehicles, Cyclists, and Pedestrians.”
*Transportation Research Record* 2676 (2): 593–605.
<https://doi.org/10.1177/03611981211044469>.

</div>

<div id="ref-fotios_whole-year_2019" class="csl-entry">

Fotios, S, J Uttley, and S Fox. 2019. “A Whole-Year Approach Showing
That Ambient Light Level Influences Walking and Cycling.” *Lighting
Research & Technology* 51 (1): 55–64.
<https://doi.org/10.1177/1477153517738306>.

</div>

<div id="ref-fotios_extending_2022" class="csl-entry">

Fotios, S, J Uttley, and S Gorjimahlabani. 2022. “Extending Observations
of Ambient Light Level and Active Travel to Explore Age and Gender
Differences in Reassurance.” *Lighting Research & Technology*, June,
14771535221080657. <https://doi.org/10.1177/14771535221080657>.

</div>

<div id="ref-gagliardi_advanced_2020" class="csl-entry">

Gagliardi, Gianfranco, Marco Lupia, Gianni Cario, Francesco Tedesco,
Francesco Cicchello Gaccio, Fabrizio Lo Scudo, and Alessandro Casavola.
2020. “Advanced Adaptive Street Lighting Systems for Smart Cities.”
*Smart Cities* 3 (4): 1495–1512.
<https://doi.org/10.3390/smartcities3040071>.

</div>

<div id="ref-jagerbrand_led_2016" class="csl-entry">

Jägerbrand, Annika. 2016. “LED (Light-Emitting Diode) Road Lighting in
Practice: An Evaluation of Compliance with Regulations and Improvements
for Further Energy Savings.” *Energies* 9 (5): 357.
<https://doi.org/10.3390/en9050357>.

</div>

<div id="ref-juntunen_smart_2018" class="csl-entry">

Juntunen, Eveliina, Esa-Matti Sarjanoja, Juho Eskeli, Henrika
Pihlajaniemi, and Toni Österlund. 2018. “Smart and Dynamic Route
Lighting Control Based on Movement Tracking.” *Building and Environment*
142 (September): 472–83.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2018.06.048>.

</div>

<div id="ref-kim_bicyclist_2007" class="csl-entry">

Kim, Joon-Ki, Sungyop Kim, Gudmundur F. Ulfarsson, and Luis A. Porrello.
2007. “Bicyclist Injury Severities in Bicycle–Motor Vehicle Accidents.”
*Accident Analysis & Prevention* 39 (2): 238–51.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2006.07.002>.

</div>

<div id="ref-klop_factors_1999" class="csl-entry">

Klop, Jeremy R., and Asad J. Khattak. 1999. “Factors Influencing Bicycle
Crash Severity on Two-Lane, Undivided Roadways in North Carolina.”
*Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research
Board* 1674 (1): 78–85. <https://doi.org/10.3141/1674-11>.

</div>

<div id="ref-lee_neighbourhood_2008" class="csl-entry">

Lee, Chanam, and Anne Vernez Moudon. 2008. “Neighbourhood Design and
Physical Activity.” *Building Research & Information* 36 (5): 395–411.
<https://doi.org/10.1080/09613210802045547>.

</div>

<div id="ref-liu_analysis_2020" class="csl-entry">

Liu, Yanan, Dujuan Yang, Harry J. P. Timmermans, and Bauke de Vries.
2020. “Analysis of the Impact of Street-Scale Built Environment Design
Near Metro Stations on Pedestrian and Cyclist Road Segment Choice: A
Stated Choice Experiment.” *Journal of Transport Geography* 82
(January): 102570. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2019.102570>.

</div>

<div id="ref-lu_improving_2015" class="csl-entry">

Lu, Linjun, Chen Wang, and Tao Wang. 2015. “Improving E-Bike Safety on
Urban Highways in China.” *Discrete Dynamics in Nature and Society*
2015: 1–8. <https://doi.org/10.1155/2015/415237>.

</div>

<div id="ref-luo_road_2022" class="csl-entry">

Luo, Yuanyuan, Yanfang Liu, Lijun Xing, Nannan Wang, and Lei Rao. 2022.
“Road Safety Evaluation Framework for Accessing Park Green Space Using
Active Travel.” *Frontiers in Environmental Science* 10 (May): 864966.
<https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2022.864966>.

</div>

<div id="ref-lusk_bicycle_2019" class="csl-entry">

Lusk, Anne, Walter Willett, Vivien Morris, Christopher Byner, and
Yanping Li. 2019. “Bicycle Facilities Safest from Crime and Crashes:
Perceptions of Residents Familiar with Higher Crime/Lower Income
Neighborhoods in Boston.” *International Journal of Environmental
Research and Public Health* 16 (3): 484.
<https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph16030484>.

</div>

<div id="ref-malik_intelligent_2022" class="csl-entry">

Malik, Faheem Ahmed, Laurent Dala, and Krishna Busawon. 2022.
“Intelligent Nanoscopic Cyclist Crash Modelling for Variable
Environmental Conditions.” *IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems* 23 (8): 11178–89.
<https://doi.org/10.1109/TITS.2021.3101118>.

</div>

<div id="ref-mazharul_hoque_analysis_1990" class="csl-entry">

Mazharul Hoque, Md. 1990. “An Analysis of Fatal Bicycle Accidents in
Victoria (Australia) with a Special Reference to Nighttime Accidents.”
*Accident Analysis & Prevention* 22 (1): 1–11.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/0001-4575(90)90002-3>.

</div>

<div id="ref-mendiate_cycling_2022" class="csl-entry">

Mendiate, Classio Joao, Alphonse Nkurunziza, Julio A. Soria-Lara, and
Andres Monzon. 2022. “Cycling in Sub-Saharan African Cities: Differences
and Similarities with Developed World Cities.” *IATSS Research* 46 (3):
398–410. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iatssr.2022.05.003>.

</div>

<div id="ref-nabavi_niaki_road_2016" class="csl-entry">

Nabavi Niaki, Matin S., Ting Fu, Nicolas Saunier, Luis F.
Miranda-Moreno, Luis Amador, and Jean-François Bruneau. 2016. “Road
Lighting Effects on Bicycle and Pedestrian Accident Frequency: Case
Study in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.” *Transportation Research Record*
2555 (1): 86–94. <https://doi.org/10.3141/2555-12>.

</div>

<div id="ref-osama_evaluating_2017" class="csl-entry">

Osama, Ahmed, and Tarek Sayed. 2017. “Evaluating the Impact of
Socioeconomics, Land Use, Built Environment, and Road Facility on
Cyclist Safety.” *Transportation Research Record: Journal of the
Transportation Research Board* 2659 (1): 33–42.
<https://doi.org/10.3141/2659-04>.

</div>

<div id="ref-poorfakhraei_estimating_2015" class="csl-entry">

Poorfakhraei, Amir, and Gregory M. Rowangould. 2015. “Estimating Welfare
Change Associated with Improvements in Urban Bicycling Facilities.”
*Journal of Transportation Engineering* 141 (11): 04015025.
<https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)TE.1943-5436.0000799>.

</div>

<div id="ref-porchia_effectiveness_2014" class="csl-entry">

Porchia, B. R., A. Baldasseroni, and C. Dellisanti. 2014. “Effectiveness
of Two Interventions in Preventing Traffic Accidents: A Systematic
Review.” *Annali Di Igiene Medicina Preventiva e Di Comunità*, no. 1
(January): 63–75. <https://doi.org/10.7416/ai.2014.1959>.

</div>

<div id="ref-reynolds_impact_2009" class="csl-entry">

Reynolds, Conor CO, M Anne Harris, Kay Teschke, Peter A Cripton, and
Meghan Winters. 2009. “The Impact of Transportation Infrastructure on
Bicycling Injuries and Crashes: A Review of the Literature.”
*Environmental Health* 8 (1): 47.
<https://doi.org/10.1186/1476-069X-8-47>.

</div>

<div id="ref-ribbens_impact_2008" class="csl-entry">

Ribbens, Dr Hubrecht. 2008. “The Impact of an Inadequate Road
Environment on the Safety of Non-Motorised Road Users,” 22.

</div>

<div id="ref-romanow_environmental_2012" class="csl-entry">

Romanow, Nicole T. R., Amy B. Couperthwaite, Gavin R. McCormack, Alberto
Nettel-Aguirre, Brian H. Rowe, and Brent E. Hagel. 2012. “Environmental
Determinants of Bicycling Injuries in Alberta, Canada.” *Journal of
Environmental and Public Health* 2012: 1–12.
<https://doi.org/10.1155/2012/487681>.

</div>

<div id="ref-samerei_using_2021" class="csl-entry">

Samerei, Seyed Alireza, Kayvan Aghabayk, Nirajan Shiwakoti, and Amin
Mohammadi. 2021. “Using Latent Class Clustering and Binary Logistic
Regression to Model Australian Cyclist Injury Severity in Motor
Vehicle–Bicycle Crashes.” *Journal of Safety Research* 79 (December):
246–56. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsr.2021.09.005>.

</div>

<div id="ref-schneider_perceived_2022" class="csl-entry">

Schneider, Robert James, Hayley Wiers, and Andrew Schmitz. 2022.
“Perceived Safety and Security Barriers to Walking and Bicycling:
Insights from Milwaukee.” *Transportation Research Record: Journal of
the Transportation Research Board* 2676 (9): 325–38.
<https://doi.org/10.1177/03611981221086646>.

</div>

<div id="ref-sustrans_bikelife_2018" class="csl-entry">

Sustrans. 2018. “BIKElife, All Cities Publication. Inclusive City
Cycling. Women: Reducingthe Gender Gap.”

</div>

<div id="ref-twisk_epidemiological_2013" class="csl-entry">

Twisk, D. A. M., and Martine Reurings. 2013. “An Epidemiological Study
of the Risk of Cycling in the Dark: The Role of Visual Perception,
Conspicuity and Alcohol Use.” *Accident Analysis & Prevention* 60
(November): 134–40. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2013.08.015>.

</div>

<div id="ref-uttley_using_2017" class="csl-entry">

Uttley, Jim, and Steve Fotios. 2017. “Using the Daylight Savings Clock
Change to Show Ambient Light Conditions Significantly Influence Active
Travel.” *Journal of Environmental Psychology* 53 (November): 1–10.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvp.2017.06.003>.

</div>

<div id="ref-uttley_road_2020" class="csl-entry">

Uttley, Jim, Steve Fotios, and Robin Lovelace. 2020. “Road Lighting
Density and Brightness Linked with Increased Cycling Rates After-Dark.”
Edited by Quan Yuan. *PLOS ONE* 15 (5): e0233105.
<https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0233105>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wang_statistical_2015" class="csl-entry">

Wang, Chen, Linjun Lu, and Jian Lu. 2015. “Statistical Analysis of
Bicyclists’ Injury Severity at Unsignalized Intersections.” *Traffic
Injury Prevention* 16 (5): 507–12.
<https://doi.org/10.1080/15389588.2014.969802>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wanvik_effects_2009" class="csl-entry">

Wanvik, Per Ole. 2009. “Effects of Road Lighting: An Analysis Based on
Dutch Accident Statistics 1987–2006.” *Accident Analysis & Prevention*
41 (1): 123–28. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2008.10.003>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wei_safety_2016" class="csl-entry">

Wei, Fulu, Zhenyu Wang, Pei-Sung Lin, Ping P. Hsu, Seckin Ozkul, Jason
Jackman, and Michael Bato. 2016. “Safety Effects of Street Illuminance
at Urban Signalized Intersections in Florida.” *Transportation Research
Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board* 2555 (1): 95–102.
<https://doi.org/10.3141/2555-13>.

</div>

<div id="ref-winters_built_2010" class="csl-entry">

Winters, Meghan, Michael Brauer, Eleanor M. Setton, and Kay Teschke.
2010. “Built Environment Influences on Healthy Transportation Choices:
Bicycling Versus Driving.” *Journal of Urban Health* 87 (6): 969–93.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s11524-010-9509-6>.

</div>

<div id="ref-winters_motivators_2011" class="csl-entry">

Winters, Meghan, Gavin Davidson, Diana Kao, and Kay Teschke. 2011.
“Motivators and Deterrents of Bicycling: Comparing Influences on
Decisions to Ride.” *Transportation* 38 (1): 153–68.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s11116-010-9284-y>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wiratama_joint_2022" class="csl-entry">

Wiratama, Bayu Satria, Li-Min Hsu, Yung-Sung Yeh, Chia-Che Chen, Wafaa
Saleh, Yen-Hsiu Liu, and Chih-Wei Pai. 2022. “Joint Effect of Heavy
Vehicles and Diminished Light Conditions on Paediatric Pedestrian
Injuries in Backover Crashes: A UK Population-Based Study.”
*International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health* 19
(18): 11689. <https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph191811689>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wood_nighttime_2020" class="csl-entry">

Wood, Joanne M. 2020. “Nighttime Driving: Visual, Lighting and
Visibility Challenges.” *Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics* 40 (2):
187–201. <https://doi.org/10.1111/opo.12659>.

</div>

<div id="ref-yang_crowdsourced_2022" class="csl-entry">

Yang, Linchuan, Bingjie Yu, Pengpeng Liang, Xianglong Tang, and Ji Li.
2022. “Crowdsourced Data for Physical Activity-Built Environment
Research: Applying Strava Data in Chengdu, China.” *Frontiers in Public
Health* 10 (April): 883177. <https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2022.883177>.

</div>

<div id="ref-yang_longitudinal_2017" class="csl-entry">

Yang, Lin, Simon Griffin, Kay-Tee Khaw, Nick Wareham, and Jenna Panter.
2017. “Longitudinal Associations Between Built Environment
Characteristics and Changes in Active Commuting.” *BMC Public Health* 17
(1): 458. <https://doi.org/10.1186/s12889-017-4396-3>.

</div>

<div id="ref-zacharias_environmental_2021" class="csl-entry">

Zacharias, John, and Si’an Meng. 2021. “Environmental Correlates of
Dock-Less Shared Bicycle Trip Origins and Destinations.” *Journal of
Transport Geography* 92 (April): 103013.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2021.103013>.

</div>

</div>
